Top BTech Civil Engineering College in Faridabad, Delhi NCR | ACEM
Home
Course Details
Civil Engineering
About the Course
Civil engineering is a best professional engineering discipline nowadays. It plays a vital role in modern society. It enables the creation of infrastructure that is necessary for economic development and the well-being of people which deals with the design, construction and maintenance of the physical and naturally built environment, include work like highways, bridges, canals, dams, airports, sewerage systems, pipelines and railways. It is the second-oldest engineering discipline after military engineering.
Civil engineering takes place in the public sector from municipal to national governments, and in the private sector from individual homeowners to international companies.
The Department of Civil Engineering at ACEM with its experienced faculties continues to maintain and cultivate its strong links with the infrastructural industry and academic and research institutions both within and outside the country. It is the Top Civil Engineering College in Delhi NCR which provides high quality education in the field of Civil engineering.
Course Benefits
Designing and construction of High Rise Buildings.
Designing and construction of Highways/Expressway/Railways/ Waterways.
To Design and construct Water supply and Sewerage system for urban /rural development.
Design & analysis of earthquake resisting structures.
Testing of different materials used in the construction industry.
Designing and analysis of the Hydroelectric Dam.
To Design and Construct Floating tunnels and River structures for Irrigation purpose.
Know about the sustainable & Environment eco-friendly structures.
Eligibility Criteria:
S.No.
Course Name
Branch
Qualification
1.
B.Tech
Civil Engineering
10+2 (PCM)
Coures Content
It is a 4 years long Undergraduate level degree program. The 4 years duration is divided into 8 semesters, each semester have for a period of 6 months. During different semesters, students will have to face separate sets of theoretical subjects as well as practical lab sessions and Projects. From 3rd semester, Project is a part of B.Tech Civil Engineering program, which helps students gain hands on experience. In simple terms, Civil Engineering program in ACEM which is one of the Best Civil Engineering College in Faridabad gives theoretical & Practical exposure such as Planning, designing and Construction field of various structures.
It is common for all branches with basic subjects.
Year 2
It gives the knowledge of civil engineering. It includes subjects like Basics of Civil Engineering, fluid mechanics, structural engineering, surveying, concrete technology, building materials with their labs.
Year 3
It is based on designing and analysis with subjects like design of concrete structures, design of steel structure, design of hydraulic structure & water resource engineering, highway & railway engineering, environmental engineering, Design of Pre-stressed concrete.
Year 4
It involves the study of Construction Engineering & management, Metro system & Engineering, cost and estimation of the structure and also includes six months industrial training.
Methods of Learning
We use a variety of teaching methods, ranging from lectures and group tutorials to small groups in laboratories. Students are encouraged to use additional recommended reading material for private study to consolidate the formal learning process, and to broaden and deepen their understanding.
Career
From game developer to manager of IT and communications services, the student will have a range of opportunities open to you as a computer science graduate.
Job Options
National Highway authority of India (NHAI)
Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC)
Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO)
Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL)
Indian Oil Corporation(IOCL)
IRCON International Limited
Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC)
Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL)
Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL)
WAPCOS, RITES
National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC)
Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL)
Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL)
National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC)
National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC)
Border Road Organization (BRO)
Military Engineering Service (MES)
HCC
Larsen & Toubro Infrastructure Development Projects Limited (L&T)
Reliance infrastructure Ltd.
GMR Infrastructure Limited
How to Apply
Student seeking admission in any of the courses offered by the University must first register himself/herself at the Institute and can call on the no's +91-8527538785.
Candidate registered with the Institute has to fill the Admission Application Form prescribed by the Institute and has to attach the necessary testimonials in original and two photocopies each along with six passport size photographs.
The application form and the necessary documents will then be processed by the Institute and sent to the University for admission. Candidate is required to submit the application form along with the documents before 15 august every year.
Student should carefully check their eligibility while taking admission in a particular course of the University. In case of non-eligibility institute will not be responsible for the cancellation of admission and fees will not be refunded.
Fee Structure
Fee Structure Academic Year 2025-26 (B.Tech) Civil Engineering :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Course Fee
100,000/-
2.
University Charges (Variable)
8,500/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable) (Variable)
4,000/-
Hostel Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Hostel Fee AC
80,000/-
2.
Hostel Fee NON-AC
65,000/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable)
4,000/-
Transport Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Transport Fee
As per Location
Course Overview
Other Courses
B.Tech - CSE
B.Tech - AIML
B.Tech - Mechanical
B.Tech - Civil
B.Tech - ECE
BBA
BBA (FS&B)
BBA (DM)
MBA
BCA
BCA - Data Science
Enquiry Now