Best BBA In Finance College In Faridabad, Delhi NCR | Aravali College Of Engineering & Technology
Home
Course Details
BBA in Financial Services and Banking
About the Course
To cater to the increasing demand of finance professionals, Aravali College of Engineering and Management into the realm of financial sector with BBA in Financial Services and Banking
The new course Bachelor of Business Administration Financial Services and Banking is an undergraduate program that emphasize on the in-depth understanding of the concepts used in the banking & finance sectors. The program brings a course structure that is weaved around a robust framework of industry requirements and is fully supported by experienced academic team.
The program is meticulously structured to make it highly industry relevant as per the present day needs of employers. Practical skills, knowledge, commercial awareness and opportunities to enhance employability are the significant lucidity around which the entire exertions are focused.
Aravali one of the top BBA Financial Services and Banking College in Delhi NCR, prepare professionals with the skills and knowledge to focus on identifying, analyzing and evaluating global and local business opportunities; creating new independent opportunities, developing creativity and understanding innovation. Upon completion of the programme the student will be able to progress their career in financial areas of business, stretching across any sector or industry. Students graduating from this programme can progress into a full-time, part-time or distance learning Postgraduate programme
Course Benefits
The course syllabus for BBA- Financial Services and Banking starts off with a formal learning of the basic fundamentals of Business Management. The module is divided into six semesters and each semester moves to the next in smooth transition with the complexity of the subjects increasing gradually. At the end of the semesters the student is expected to have a good grasp on the various aspects of management skills and techniques. Along with this he/she should be well-versed with problem solving abilities and people management skills.
BBA Financial Services and Banking is a great degree course for students who want to build a career in field of banking, finance and insurance sector. This course covers all the areas that intrigue the intelligence of the student. BBA Financial Services and Banking is the perfect platform for people who plan to do MBA Finance. It covers most of the subjects that one would encounter in their MBA. BBA Finance and Banking being a professional course also gives an early start to ones career.
Eligibility Criteria:
S.No.
Course Name
Branch
Qualification
1.
BBA(FS&B)
Management
10+2
Career
Through the BBA programs, students can pursue business education and learn skills that will help them pursue various management and administrative roles within a company. Employers may seek business administration graduates for a broad range of positions in different areas. Positions may include:
Job Options
Investment Banking Analyst
Financial Services Data Analyst
Portfolio Managers
Client Investment Associates
Finance Manager
Accounts Manager
Risk Management Associate
Strategic Manager
Investor Relationship Manager
Equity Analyst Manager
How to Apply
Student seeking admission in any of the courses offered by the University must first register himself/herself at the Institute and can call on the no's +91-8527538785.
Candidate registered with the Institute has to fill the Admission Application Form prescribed by the Institute and has to attach the necessary testimonials in original and two photocopies each along with six passport size photographs.
The application form and the necessary documents will then be processed by the Institute and sent to the University for admission. Candidate is required to submit the application form along with the documents before 15 august every year.
Student should carefully check their eligibility while taking admission in a particular course of the University. In case of non-eligibility institute will not be responsible for the cancellation of admission and fees will not be refunded.
Fee Structure
Fee Structure Academic Year 2025-26 BBA (FS&B):
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Course Fee
65,000/-
2.
University Charges (Variable)
8,500/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable) (Variable)
4,000/-
Hostel Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Hostel Fee AC
80,000/-
2.
Hostel Fee NON-AC
65,000/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable)
4,000/-
Transport Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Transport Fee
As per Location
Course Overview
B.Tech - CSE
B.Tech - AIML
B.Tech - Mechanical
B.Tech - Civil
B.Tech - ECE
BBA
BBA (FS&B)
BBA (DM)
MBA
BCA
BCA - Data Science
Enquiry Now