Best BCA Data Science College In Faridabad, Delhi NCR | Aravali College Of Engineering & Technology
Home
Course Details
Bachelors in Computer Application with Data Science
About the Course
Best Bachelors in Computer Application (BCA) with Specialisation in Data Science in Delhi/NCR. Known to be a three-year full-time undergraduate programme that teaches technical skills and practical knowledge in Data Science. The goal of Aravali College of Engineering and Management is to educate students how to use a high-level language that is ideal for data science to develop algorithms for core data science activities such as machine learning and data mining, statistical inference, and so on. This curriculum blends theory with practice in order to prepare graduates to meet the demands of the future data-driven economy. By maintaining a good balance between data science and computer applications, the curriculum aims to bridge the gap between the two fields. Big Data Analytics, Python Programming, Machine Learning, Data Modelling and Visualization, Statistics and Probability, and Introduction to Data Mining are among the subjects studied. Both computer and mathematics applications are covered in the coursework. Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, R Programming, Database Management Systems, and Big Data-Analytics are among the courses offered to students. Taking all of the aforementioned factors into account, Aravali College of Engineering and Management is ranked as the best BCA data science college in Faridabad.
Course Benefits
BCA Data Science is in huge demand in the market. Data Science in addition to this course, makes this course of more worth. The course itself has plenty of reasons to convince you to apply for admission in this course. Some of them are mentioned below:
Gives you the knowledge and skills of both the data sciences and computer applications world.
The course is in huge demand in industrial areas and is also globally accepted.
You can grab a good salary package in this field depending on the experience and skills you hold.
This course opens you to a wider range of lucrative job opportunities.
Eligibility Criteria:
S.No.
Course Name
Branch
Qualification
1.
BCA (DS)
Computer Application
10+2
Career
The Programme focuses on inculcating problem solving amongst students.
The programme intends to throw significant light on the scope of Data Science and relevance to modern society. Data Scientists can also solve at least one layer of various issues plaguing society by developing data-driven models.
Job Options
Application analyst
Applications developer
Data analyst
Systems analyst
Web developer
How to Apply
Student seeking admission in any of the courses offered by the University must first register himself/herself at the Institute and can call on the no's +91-8527538785.
Candidate registered with the Institute has to fill the Admission Application Form prescribed by the Institute and has to attach the necessary testimonials in original and two photocopies each along with six passport size photographs.
The application form and the necessary documents will then be processed by the Institute and sent to the University for admission. Candidate is required to submit the application form along with the documents before 15 august every year.
Student should carefully check their eligibility while taking admission in a particular course of the University. In case of non-eligibility institute will not be responsible for the cancellation of admission and fees will not be refunded.
Fee Structure
Fee Structure Academic Year 2024-25 (B.Tech) Computer Science:
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Course Fee
70,000/-
2.
University Charges (Variable)
8,500/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable) (Variable)
4,000/-
Hostel Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Hostel Fee AC
80,000/-
2.
Hostel Fee NON-AC
65,000/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable)
4,000/-
Transport Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Transport Fee
As per Location
Course Overview
B.Tech - CSE
B.Tech - AIML
B.Tech - Mechanical
B.Tech - Civil
B.Tech - ECE
BBA
BBA (FS&B)
BBA (DM)
MBA
BCA
BCA - Data Science
Enquiry Now