Best MBA College In Faridabad, Delhi NCR | Aravali College Of Engineering & Technology
Home
Course Details
Masters of Business Administration (MBA)
About the Course
Masters of Business Administration (MBA) a postgraduate program at Aravali College of Engineering and Management, which is the top management college in Delhi/NCR, equips the students to build sound understanding of national as well as international business world.
The MBA course structure is weaved around a robust framework of industry requirements and is fully supported by experienced academic team. The program is meticulously structured to make it highly industry relevant to create a win-win situation for students. Practical skills, knowledge, commercial awareness and opportunities to enhance employability are the significant lucidity around which the entire exertions are focused.
We at the Best MBA College in Faridabad prepare future entrepreneurs with the skills and knowledge to start their own businesses with a focus on identifying, analysing and evaluating global and local business opportunities; creating new independent business ventures or new ventures within existing firms; developing creativity and understanding innovation. Upon completion of the programme the student will be able to progress their career in business, HR or Financial organisations stretching across any sector or industry.
Course Benefits
MBA course is meticulously designed, the modules are divided into four semesters and each semester moves to the next in smooth transition with the complexity of the subjects increasing gradually. At the end of the semesters the student is expected to have a good grasp on the various aspects of management skills and techniques. Along with this he/she should be well-versed with problem solving abilities and people management skills.
Eligibility Criteria:
S.No.
Course Name
Branch
Qualification
1.
MBA
Management
Graduation from a Recognized University
Career
After the MBA program, students can start working in various management and administrative roles in Organizations. Students, can go for building their own empires by following the business idea which was there in your mind. They can also pursue Doctorate course in Management which will help them to further grow in professional life:
Job Options
Marketing Manager
Business Development Manager
Operations Manager
Finance Manager
Information Officer
Purchase Officer
Strategic Manager
International Business Manager
Brand Manager
How to Apply
Student seeking admission in any of the courses offered by the University must first register himself/herself at the Institute and can call on the no's +91-8527538785.
Candidate registered with the Institute has to fill the Admission Application Form prescribed by the Institute and has to attach the necessary testimonials in original and two photocopies each along with six passport size photographs.
The application form and the necessary documents will then be processed by the Institute and sent to the University for admission. Candidate is required to submit the application form along with the documents before 15 august every year.
Student should carefully check their eligibility while taking admission in a particular course of the University. In case of non-eligibility institute will not be responsible for the cancellation of admission and fees will not be refunded.
Fee Structure
Fee Structure Academic Year 2025-26 MBA:
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Course Fee
95,000/-
2.
University Charges (Variable)
8,500/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable) (Variable)
4,000/-
Hostel Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Hostel Fee AC
80,000/-
2.
Hostel Fee NON-AC
65,000/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable)
4,000/-
Transport Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Transport Fee
As per Location
Course Overview
B.Tech - CSE
B.Tech - AIML
B.Tech - Mechanical
B.Tech - Civil
B.Tech - ECE
BBA
BBA (FS&B)
BBA (DM)
MBA
BCA
BCA - Data Science
Enquiry Now