Best BTech Computer Science College In Faridabad, Delhi NCR | ACEM
Home
Course Details
Computer Science Engineering
About the Course
Aravali College of Engineering and Management, Faridabad offers B.Tech in Computer Science & Engineering which is an undergraduate program that promises a galore of opportunities for today's supersonic generation.
The department of Computer Science & Engineering is fully equipped with best of intellectual, capital and state-of- the-art labs. The main focus is to provide the students with the latest technologies available in the market so as to keep them abreast with the emerging trends in the field.
The department has experienced faculty members with Ph.D's and Publication in National and International Journals. It has the vision of "Evolve into a centre of Excellence for Education and Research in Computer Science & Engineering" through academic excellence, collaborative research and value added courses to produce highly competent and socially conscious information technology professionals. Apart from knowledge and skills, the association programmes conducted by the department aim to develop all round personality by inculcating values of truthfulness, genuineness, team spirit and vibrant work culture. Aravali College of Engineering and Management has established itself as one of the best college in Delhi/NCR, to let students realize their potential in this ever-growing field.
Course Benefits
Ability to design software and hardware system, and the process to meet the desired requirements within constraints.
Ability to apply design and development principles in designing of software systems.
Knowledge of algorithms and data structures.
Knowledge of statistics and probability including application to computer science and engineering.
Eligibility Criteria:
S.No.
Course Name
Branch
Qualification
1.
B.Tech
CSE
10+2 (PCM)
Career
From game developer to manager of IT and communications services, the student will have a range of opportunities open to you as a computer science graduate.
Job Options
Application analyst
Applications developer
Data analyst
Database administrator
Games developer
Information systems manager
IT consultant
Multimedia programmer
SEO specialist
Software engineer
Systems analyst
UX designer
Web designer
Web developer
Digital copywriter
IT sales professional
IT trainer
Nanotechnologist
Network engineer
PPC specialist
Social media manager
Technical author
Web content manager
How to Apply
Student seeking admission in any of the courses offered by the University must first register himself/herself at the Institute and can call on the no's +91-8527538785.
Candidate registered with the Institute has to fill the Admission Application Form prescribed by the Institute and has to attach the necessary testimonials in original and two photocopies each along with six passport size photographs.
The application form and the necessary documents will then be processed by the Institute and sent to the University for admission. Candidate is required to submit the application form along with the documents before 15 august every year.
Student should carefully check their eligibility while taking admission in a particular course of the University. In case of non-eligibility institute will not be responsible for the cancellation of admission and fees will not be refunded.
Fee Structure
Fee Structure Academic Year 2025-26 (B.Tech) Computer Science:
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Course Fee
100,000/-
2.
University Charges (Variable)
8,500/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable) (Variable)
4,000/-
Hostel Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Hostel Fee AC
80,000/-
2.
Hostel Fee NON-AC
65,000/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable)
4,000/-
Transport Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Transport Fee
As per Location
Other Courses
B.Tech - CSE
B.Tech - AIML
B.Tech - Mechanical
B.Tech - Civil
B.Tech - ECE
BBA
BBA (FS&B)
BBA (DM)
MBA
BCA
BCA - Data Science
Enquiry Now