Best BBA In Digital Marketing College In Faridabad, Delhi NCR | ACEM
Home
Course Details
BBA-Digital Marketing
About the Course
The three-year bachelor's program in marketing through the Internet is available after the 12th grade. Digital marketing is the latest and most popular branch of marketing. Not just in India, but all around the world, the market for digital advertising is rising. Since practically every organization is moving its operations online, the demand for digital marketers is rising quickly and creating opportunities for numerous job seekers. Students with a BBA (Digital Marketing) are updated on some of the critical ideas of sales conversions, campaign analysis, and strategy development. Candidates for the BBA (Digital Marketing) program should possess critical thinking abilities, the ability to think creatively and innovatively, and strong interpersonal and communication skills. Six semesters make up the three-year BBA (Digital Marketing) program. Different topics connected to marketing and assessing businesses are covered in each semester. The program's curriculum covers a wide range of topics connected to digital marketing, including social media marketing, Search engine optimization, Ad words from Google, YouTube marketing, Analytics by Google, and Webmaster Tools. The students will be able to master all the techniques for getting their website to appear at the top of Google searches.
Course Benefits
Digital Marketing allows you to learn about different digital marketing techniques for MNC companies. Wide range of digital marketing jobs including SEO optimization, Social media marketing, Online Advertising, Content Marketing, Conversion Rate Optimization, and more. One can start their own digital marketing business without working for anyone or work as a freelancer. Digital marketing is in high demand because of the digital revolution and even in the coming few years, digital marketers are going to be in high demand for MNC companies.
Eligibility Criteria:
S.No.
Course Name
Branch
Qualification
1.
BBA (DM)
Management
10+2
Career
A BBA in Digital Marketing ensures that students are well-prepared to navigate and excel in this dynamic environment. The program’s emphasis on both theoretical knowledge and practical application ensures that graduates are equipped to meet the demands of modern businesses and stay ahead in a competitive job market. After completing BBA Digital Marketing, the various job opportunities can be explored in sectors like:
Job Options
Digital Marketing Manager
SEO Specialist
Content Marketer
PPC Specialist
Marketing Analyst
How to Apply
Student seeking admission in any of the courses offered by the University must first register himself/herself at the Institute and can call on the no's +91-8527538785.
Candidate registered with the Institute has to fill the Admission Application Form prescribed by the Institute and has to attach the necessary testimonials in original and two photocopies each along with six passport size photographs.
The application form and the necessary documents will then be processed by the Institute and sent to the University for admission. Candidate is required to submit the application form along with the documents before 15 august every year.
Student should carefully check their eligibility while taking admission in a particular course of the University. In case of non-eligibility institute will not be responsible for the cancellation of admission and fees will not be refunded.
Fee Structure
Fee Structure Academic Year 2025-26 BBA (Digital Marketing):
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Course Fee
65,000/-
2.
University Charges (Variable)
8,500/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable) (Variable)
4,000/-
Hostel Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Hostel Fee AC
80,000/-
2.
Hostel Fee NON-AC
65,000/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable)
4,000/-
Transport Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Transport Fee
As per Location
Course Overview
B.Tech - CSE
B.Tech - AIML
B.Tech - Mechanical
B.Tech - Civil
B.Tech - ECE
BBA
BBA (FS&B)
BBA (DM)
MBA
BCA
BCA - Data Science
Enquiry Now