Best BBA College In Faridabad, Delhi NCR | Aravali College Of Engineering & Technology
Home
Course Details
BBA-GENERAL
About the Course
Aravali college of Engineering and Management is considered as one of the best BBA College in Faridabad that equip with the students to build sound understanding of business world and develop their students into professionals. The program brings in a course structure that is weaved around a robust framework of industry requirements and is fully supported by experienced academic team. The program is meticulously structured to make it highly industry relevant as per the present day needs of employers. Practical skills, knowledge, commercial awareness and opportunities to enhance employability are the significant lucidity around which the entire exertions are focused. We at Aravali prepare future entrepreneurs with the skills and knowledge to start their own businesses with a focus on identifying, analyzing and evaluating global and local business opportunities; creating new independent business ventures or new ventures within existing firms; developing creativity and understanding innovation. Upon completion of the programme the student will be able to progress their career in business, HR or financial organisations stretching across any sector or industry. Students graduating from this programme can progress onto a full-time, part-time or distance learning Postgraduate programme.
Course Benefits
BBA is a great degree course for students who want to build a career in field of commerce. BBA covers all the areas that intrigue the intelligence of the student. BBA is the perfect platform for people who plan to do MBA. It covers most of the subjects that one would encounter in their MBA regardless of what specialization they choose. BBA being a professional course also gives an early start to one's career.
S.No.
Course Name
Branch
Qualification
1.
BBA
Management
10+2
Career
Through the BBA programs, students can pursue business education and learn skills that will help them pursue various management and administrative roles within a company. Employers may seek business administration graduates for a broad range of positions in different areas. Positions may include:
Job Options
Operations manager
Information security officer
Sales manager
Loss prevention manager
Cost estimator
How to Apply
Student seeking admission in any of the courses offered by the University must first register himself/herself at the Institute and can call on the no's +91-8527538785.
Candidate registered with the Institute has to fill the Admission Application Form prescribed by the Institute and has to attach the necessary testimonials in original and two photocopies each along with six passport size photographs.
The application form and the necessary documents will then be processed by the Institute and sent to the University for admission. Candidate is required to submit the application form along with the documents before 15 august every year.
Student should carefully check their eligibility while taking admission in a particular course of the University. In case of non-eligibility institute will not be responsible for the cancellation of admission and fees will not be refunded.
Fee Structure
Fee Structure Academic Year 2025-26 BBA:
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Course Fee
65,000/-
2.
University Charges (Variable)
8,500/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable) (Variable)
4,000/-
Hostel Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Hostel Fee AC
80,000/-
2.
Hostel Fee NON-AC
65,000/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable)
4,000/-
Transport Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Transport Fee
As per Location
Course Overview
B.Tech - CSE
B.Tech - AIML
B.Tech - Mechanical
B.Tech - Civil
B.Tech - ECE
BBA
BBA (FS&B)
BBA (DM)
MBA
BCA
BCA - Data Science
Enquiry Now