Best BTech Mechanical Engineering College In Faridabad, Delhi NCR | ACEM
Home
Course Details
Mechanical Engineering
About the Course
Mechanical engineering is one of the largest, broadest, and oldest engineering disciplines. Mechanical engineers use these core concepts paired with tools like computer-aided design (CAD), and product lifecycle management to design, analyze and manufacturing equipments. Mechanical Engineering department conducted various seminars for students time to time so that all rounded progress of the students can sustained. Due to the all-rounded performance/growth of the students. Aravali Engineering College counts in Top ME College in Delhi NCR.
Mechanical Engineering is the art and science of designing, development and control of systems and components such as fluid mechanics, material science, thermodynamics, kinematics, etc. The key characteristics of the profession are its breadth, flexibility, and individuality. The career paths of mechanical engineers are largely determined by individual choices, a decided advantage in a changing world. Mechanical Engineering Department delivers an excellent education in technical as well as industrials aspects/exposure and due to high academic excellence performance by Mechanical Engineering students as well as Department, Aravali College counts best college for Mechanical Engineering in Delhi NCR as well as in Faridabad.
Course Benefits
Demonstrate the ability to analyze, design and improve practical thermal and/or mechanical systems.
Show the ability to communicate effectively and work well on team-based engineering projects.
Succeed in entry-level mechanical engineering positions.
Pursue continued professional development, including professional registration if desired.
Successfully pursue engineering graduate studies and research if desired.
Eligibility Criteria:
S.No.
Course Name
Branch
Qualification
1.
B.Tech
Mechanical Engineering
10+2 (PCM)
Coures Content
It is a 4 years long Undergraduate level degree program. The 4 years duration is divided into 8 semesters, each semester lasting for a period of 6 months. During different semesters, students will have to face separate sets of theoretical subjects as well as practical lab sessions and workshops. Workshops form an integral part of B.E./B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering program, which helps students gain hands on experience. In simple terms, Mechanical Engineering program revolves around concepts such as designing, manufacturing and working of machines and tools, parts of machines and their design, concepts of physics etc. As a result, students will come across subjects focusing on machines.
Year 1
The student will study two basic modules of Mechanical Engineering which are Workshop Technology and Basic of Mechanical Engineering. It covers the study of plant layout, basic tools and machinery used in industrial environment, industrial safety, different engineering materials, various manufacturing process namely casting processes, mechanical working processes (cold and hot metal work), joining processes (welding, brazing and soldering). The main objective of this course is to create an ideal reference for undergraduate engineers to make them understand the deep insight of the manufacturing industrial environment. The undergraduate students will be able to acquire the knowledge of boilers, steam nozzles, condenser, thermal power plant turbines, pumps, hydraulics machines, stress and strains and utilization of energy during the energy conversion process. These contents will be helpful in understanding others subjects of engineering.
Year 2
In this year the students will study conceptual modules of Mechanical Engineering which are Thermodynamics, Engineering Mechanics, Computer Aided Design, Strength of Materials, Fluid Mechanics, Steam power generation, Manufacturing Technology-1, Material Science. These modules will provide reference knowledge for three pyramids of Mechanical Engineering i.e Structure, Hydraulics and Thermal.
Students will be able to acquire knowledge of energy conversion with the steam turbines, steam nozzles, condensers, and steam thermal power plants, and their applications in the generation of electrical energy from mechanical energy and drawbacks of steam thermal power plant as compared to other thermal power plant/any other power plants.It familiarizes with the working of air compressor and pumps, their utilization in our daily life. This study will help to develop the skill in engineers for understanding the comprehensive manufacturing knowledge, design parameters and production criteria for the development of useful products.
In this year there is practical exposure of different labs like Computer Aided Design lab, Material Science lab, Engineering Mechanics lab, Kinematics of Machine lab. After 2nd year there is a provision of 4 weeks industrial training in which student can do the training in any industry.
Year 3
The third year students will understand computing the circuits, computer architecture, multimedia, operating systems, algorithms, and applications at different levels of abstraction.
Year 4
The Fourth year students mainly focus on Industrial Training and Industrial Training Projects. After the completion of the course, graduates become engineering professionals, leaders, Innovators and practitioners to solve several technical problems in industry.
Methods of Learning
We use a variety of teaching methods, ranging from lectures and group tutorials to small groups in laboratories. Students are encouraged to use additional recommended reading material for private study to consolidate the formal learning process, and to broaden and deepen their understanding.
Career
Mechanical Engineering is a core and evergreen branch. Almost all core industries and manufacturing units make use of machines. Thus, for functioning and maintenance of machines, qualified mechanical engineers are needed by such industries.
There are ample amount of job opportunities for B.E./B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering graduates in Government as well as private sector. When it comes to government sector, organizations and departments like- Indian Railways, DRDO, Indian Armed Forces, BHEL, PWD, NHAI, State Wise Road Transport Boards etc recruit Mechanical Engineers. Private sector offers even more job opportunities.
Small, medium and large scale manufacturing units hire large number of Mechanical Engineers to function efficiently. Automobile firms also recruit qualified Mechanical Engineering graduates. Starting salary (depends on different factors) is generally between 2-4.5 lakh rupees per year, for graduates who after completing M.Tech program, can take up teaching job also. By pursuing PhD program, one may also take up a job in the Research and Development sector.
How to Apply
Student seeking admission in any of the courses offered by the University must first register himself/herself at the Institute and can call on the no's +91-8527538785.
Candidate registered with the Institute has to fill the Admission Application Form prescribed by the Institute and has to attach the necessary testimonials in original and two photocopies each along with six passport size photographs.
The application form and the necessary documents will then be processed by the Institute and sent to the University for admission. Candidate is required to submit the application form along with the documents before 15 august every year.
Student should carefully check their eligibility while taking admission in a particular course of the University. In case of non-eligibility institute will not be responsible for the cancellation of admission and fees will not be refunded.
Fee Structure
Fee Structure Academic Year 2025-26 (B.Tech) Mechanical Engineering:
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Course Fee
100,000/-
2.
University Charges (Variable)
8,500/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable) (Variable)
4,000/-
Hostel Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Hostel Fee AC
80,000/-
2.
Hostel Fee NON-AC
65,000/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable)
4,000/-
Transport Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Transport Fee
As per Location
Other Courses
B.Tech - CSE
B.Tech - AIML
B.Tech - Mechanical
B.Tech - Civil
B.Tech - ECE
BBA
BBA (FS&B)
BBA (DM)
MBA
BCA
BCA - Data Science
Enquiry Now