Best BCA College In Faridabad, Delhi NCR | Aravali College Of Engineering & Technology
Home
Course Details
Bachelors in Computer Application (BCA)
About the Course
Aravali College of Engineering and Management (ACEM) is the top college in Delhi NCR for Bachelor of Computer Applications. The Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA) is a cutting-edge degree programme in the field of computer applications. The Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA) is a six-semester, three-year undergraduate degree programme. Students at ACEM are taught courses relating to technical applications that are needed in today's actual work environment. As a result, ACEM is ranked as a top college for Bachelor of Computer Application in Faridabad.
Students either pursue a master's degree or seek employment after completing the BCA programme. Bachelor of Computer Applications is a programme designed for students interested in pursuing a career in the field of computers and information technology. If a student is interested in a computer-related field, the BCA programme is ideal. ACEM assists people in determining what the future holds for them. As a result, it is recognized as the top BCA institute in Delhi/NCR.
Course Benefits
BCA is in huge demand in the market. The course itself has plenty of reasons to convince you to apply for admission in this course. Some of them are mentioned below:
Ability to design software and hardware system, and the process to meet the desired requirements within the required constraints.
Knowledge of statics and probability including application to computer science and engineering.
Knowledge of algorithms and data structures.
Ability to apply design and development principles in designing of software systems.
Knowledge of concepts of computer programming languages.
Problem analysis and solution design.
Ability to apply mathematics, computer science theory and algorithm principles in modelling and designing of computer-based systems.
Eligibility Criteria:
S.No.
Course Name
Branch
Qualification
1.
BCA
Computer Application
10+2
Career
BCA graduates can start up their career in either Government sector or private sector since there are a lot of employment opportunities in both these sectors. This degree helps the students to get a sound knowledge on computer applications with the help of which they can have a perfect launch pad for challenging career in the field of information technology.
Job Options
Application analyst
Applications developer
Data analyst
Systems analyst
Web developer
How to Apply
Student seeking admission in any of the courses offered by the University must first register himself/herself at the Institute and can call on the no's +91-8527538785.
Candidate registered with the Institute has to fill the Admission Application Form prescribed by the Institute and has to attach the necessary testimonials in original and two photocopies each along with six passport size photographs.
The application form and the necessary documents will then be processed by the Institute and sent to the University for admission. Candidate is required to submit the application form along with the documents before 15 august every year.
Student should carefully check their eligibility while taking admission in a particular course of the University. In case of non-eligibility institute will not be responsible for the cancellation of admission and fees will not be refunded.
Fee Structure
Fee Structure Academic Year 2025-26 BCA:
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Course Fee
70,000/-
2.
University Charges (Variable)
8,500/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable) (Variable)
4,000/-
Hostel Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Hostel Fee AC
80,000/-
2.
Hostel Fee NON-AC
65,000/-
3.
Security Fee (Refundable)
4,000/-
Transport Fee :
SR.NO
FEE HEAD
FEE
1.
Transport Fee
As per Location
Course Overview
B.Tech - CSE
B.Tech - AIML
B.Tech - Mechanical
B.Tech - Civil
B.Tech - ECE
BBA
BBA (FS&B)
BBA (DM)
MBA
BCA
BCA - Data Science
Enquiry Now