About Us | Aravali College Of Engineering And Management
Home
About Us
Aravali College Of Engineering And Management
Aravali College of Engineering and Management was founded in the year 2008 with a vision to become one of the finest institution in the country, in the field of technical education and research; through focused, effective and sustained efforts and programmes. The main aim of the institute is to provide excellent quality technical and managerial education not only to the students from Delhi/NCR region but also from all over the world.
It is promoted by a visionary educationist, Mr. Dhan Singh Bhadana, who is also the Chairman of the Aravali Eduworld which includes a boquet of international schools namely as Aravali International School, Aravali College of Engineering and Management, Aravali Institute of Competitive Studies & Aravali College of Advanced Studies in Education. A part of his vision is to impart education to needy and economically poorer sections to facilitate their participation and development in the society, for this various awards and schemes are being offered by the college.
Mr. Bhadana's vision is to provide students with quality education, enable them to succeed and excel in their chosen fields of career progression, and thereby stand apart as distinguished examples of superior education. ACEM is committed to impart quality education that transforms students into responsible self-reliant and confident citizens of the future. Diversity and inclusion in all of its forms are appreciated and celebrated at Aravali.

About Aravali Group
Aravali Eduworld is a group of educational institutions which includes Aravali International School, Aravali Institute of Competitive Studies, Aravali College of Advanced Studies in Education, Aravali College of Engineering and Management and Aravali Edquest Pvt. Ltd. We believe that education is an ongoing process which needs support from the society, management and students. Our motto is to provide the best education and nurture every child holistically to become resistant and passionate learner of good character.