Director's Message | Aravali College Of Engineering And Management
Home
Director's Message
Director's Message
DR. PROF. SURESH KUMAR JINDAL
M.TECH (IIT KHARAGPUR)
DIRECTOR- PRINCIPAL
Dear Students, Congratulations on joining the Aravali College of Engineering and Management (ACEM) family.On behalf of the institute I welcome you all to ACEM Faridabad, where we pursue excellence in all the institute activities in an attempt to transform young students into responsible and professional engineers/managers with a sense of social responsibility, human values and concern for environment. The contemporary design of our state-of -the-art labs, smart classrooms, meeting spaces, research and teaching areas etc., is an integral expression of our commitment to creating a physical environment that can sustain the production of learning and knowledge in the 21st century.
We continuously strive to train the students to become excellent scientists, engineers, technologists, thinkers, managers and leaders of the society.It has been our constant endeavor to instill in our students ethical values there by making them socially responsible citizens. In addition to developing scientific and managerial skills, students are also encouraged for entrepreneurship. ACEM is approved by AICTE and affiliated to YMCA University, Faridabad and offers a four year B.Tech programme in four branches, viz., Computer Science and Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Civil Engineering.
The institute also offers a three year BBA programme and a two year MBA programme. Along with theoretical classes the students are given practical knowledge through most advanced state of the art laboratories and field work in all the disciplines. The rich and unique learning environment develops the student physically, intellectually and emotionally The institute has a very active training and placement cell which takes numerous special initiatives to prepare the students for placements with aim that every student gets at least one offer letter by the time them leave the institute. The institute also conducts faculty development programmes and organizes workshops, seminars and symposia in collaboration with well reputed organizations to provide exposure to the students as well as the faculty. We are sure that the excellent academic environment and the opportunity to participate in co-curricular activities will also help you in developing your personality and in your all-round development. I sincerely hope that your academic journey in ACEM will be fruitful and enjoyable in every aspect and the experiences you gain here and the moments you spend here will be cherished by you all your life.
Wishing you the very best!
Other Links
About Us
Chairman's Message
Director's Message
Vision/Mission
Affiliations